
Is your disability also your identity? The ship of Theseus is a thought experiment where parts of are replaced forcing the question whether something is the sum of its parts. Siri Keeton asks us to imagine radical-hemispherectomy an operation where "half the brain is thrown out with yesterday's krill" (20). Throughout most of the novel the answer appears to be yes, that you cannot hope to regain what is lost and can only dream being someone else or who you once where (234). When becomes over-reliant on his Chinese Room similar to the unconsciousness of vampires or Scramblers that makes Siri the best in his field of Synthesis or the decoding incomprehensible patterns (254). Tragically, this disability is shown as a metaphorical room Siri hides to avoid intense emotions, a bathroom to hide from his mother Helen (230) or when his ex-girlfriend Chelsea is dying, "I really wanted to talk to her. I just couldn't find an algorithm that fit." (293). It is only through another physical disability that we might be able to explain that the answer is no, that a person is more than the sum of their parts and can be reborn as someone else. We see this through the equivalent to biblical crucifixion by Jukka Sarasti allowing Siri to transcend his emotional disability and finally empathize, "Get out of your room, Keeton [...] For once in your goddamned life, understand something"(300). However, for Siri Keeton, the timing of regaining his humanity is unfortunate with the possibility of leaving him disabled and alone if the humanity loses their consciousness after the events of Echopraxia.

Daniel Brüks is a baseline, or normal, non-augmented human who struggles to stay by post-human, vampire standards, a roach or "so primitive you're unkillable" (Echo 141). Unlike Siri who dreams being non-disabled, Daniel takes prejudices and humiliations in stride with pride in his disability of baseline-ness, never opting for body augmentations and instead wearing gimp hood to access ConSensus and pills, the implication being that this is a self-imposed disability when brain implants (Echo 169) and pumps (Echo 52) exist. As noted by his wife Rhona, Daniel's overcompensation for his disabilities (Echo 321) are what make him endearing and he is portrayed as not being a wannabe post-human (Echo 68). Whereas Siri's disability is expressed as imposter syndrome when he is actually part of the bleeding edge of the Theseus crew (252), Daniel like a Luddite clings to his humanity and empiricism, disabilities in a universe where consciousness is implied to be parasite (Echo 351) and "God's a virus" (Echo 224). If Siri's disability is following a system of rules and reporting to his masters without comprehension (250), Daniel's disability is rebelling against rules if he cannot consciously comprehend them, "Even in sleep, Dan Brüks didn’t take anything on faith" (Echo 69). Daniel is "cured" from this disability by being used by the Bicamerals and vampires to uplift humanity and achieve interspecies peace by infecting him with Portia, a cure or patch for consciousness created by Rorsarch which it sent back towards Earth through the Icarus stream during the events of Blindsight. Realizing that he lives in a prejudiced society that has forcibly cured him, Daniel embraces his disability being expressed as the free will to take his own life (Echo 352).

Unlike Daniel, we see the majority of humanity succumbing to anxieties of being obsolete for perceived disabilities and being forced to augment. Some humans escape into heaven while others are forced to become augmented. As expressed by Robert Cunnigham, "We can be utterly useless, or we can try and compete against the vampires and the constructs and the AIs" (251). Theseus with its augmented team of post-humans (49) operates at a disabled level when compared to vampires, who visualize prime numbers (63), diffraction patterns (203), quadrochromatia (334) and draw strategic battle plans accounting for a multitude of variables to arrive at a specific timetable of thirty-seven minutes (213). Human disability due to consciousness is further exemplified through the scramblers whose unconsciousness allows them to instantly on reflex calculate ten-digit prime numbers, complex shapes (264) and hide between literal eye saccades and induce agnosias "even their retarded children can rewire brains on the fly" (283). In Echopraxia, this anxiety is compounded through the introduction of Bicammerals, hive-minded super monks with biological radios allowing telepathy (Watts, Echopraxia 29 or Echo 29) gaining these abilities through only through inflicting a disability on their bodies being the loss of their identity through undergoing induced brain cancer and synaptic pruning to form a new self (Echo 179).
