



Blindsight and Echopraxia, to provide the experience of disability being inflicted, self-inflicted or felt through being obsolete, the story uses detailed visual descriptions to describe sensations so foreign and incomprehensible summarized by Michelle as Susan James, "[...] you can't turn a sunset into a string of grunts without losing something." (89). In Blindsight, we are forced to experience Siri's narrative through disjointed yet logical jumps following or preceding intense emotions. As the crew of the Thesus ventures into Rorschach's radiation causes various disabilities: blindsight, unconscious processing through the brainstem, in Issac Spindzel, self-harm in Cruncher as Susan James, (161, 162, 171). During the disability inflicting chaos, we experience a flashback of Chelsea trying to fix Siri's disability causing a less pleasant violent flashback of Siri's mother Helen being strangled by his father Jim Moore after attempting to fix Siri's emotional disability through the illicit use of Bondfast a maternal bonding drug for children (167). Later we experience consciousness as a disability with the first sighting of scramblers, with one appearing invisible in front of Siri (219) only to realize that the scramblers were introduced unconsciously in the form of visual schizophrenic hallucinations of segmented creatures chapters before (130, 191). We the reader experience the unconscious algorithms found in headquotes which may be from real people or are fake as Siri's hallucinations long before our "disabled" conscious minds finish the chapters. As Robert Cunnigham describes it, "So one part of the brain tries to tell another any way it can. Passes notes under the table...Blindsight" (318). While headquotes influence our unconscious understanding, it is through trigger phrases starting with “imagine” that we are asked to supplant our conscious identities, "Imagine you're...Siri Keeton, a machine, crown of thorns, prisoner of war, Amanda Bates, a scrambler..." (25, 43, 124, 181, 241, 332, 362). We experience the disabilities and lack thereof through occupying different forms, as summarized by Daniel Brüks "A literary affectation [...] putting yourself in the character's head" (Echo 294).

As we hear the phrase "Imagine Christ on the Cross" the image is universal, a crucifix symbolizing suffering and inflicted disability (Echo 18, 258, 323). In Echopraxia, it acts as a trigger phase by Valerie the vampire, causing a fatal cascade of short-circuiting nerves karmatically causing humans to experience the crucifix glitch, a disability used to enslave vampires. In a flashback of Valerie's past in a vampire testing facility, her disability is exploited for scientific research as we are shown a horror sequence of a background morphing slowly into a right angle causing her to seize, the equivalent of intentionally flashing lights in front of a photosensitive epileptic to induce a seizure (Echo 240). Vampires through their disabilities symbolize the biblical dichotomy with two sides of a crucifix symbolizing saints and devils "[…] intellect coexisting with so much instinctive aggression. Making sure the right part wins" (133). Their evolutionary wiring for hunting is a disability that is misinterpreted for sadism seen where Jukka Sarasiti watches a series of tortured human faces like a statistical bar chart (337) or when Daniel attempts to heal Valerie's broken forearm only for her to traumatize him by snapping her own bones after each attempt, a medical necessity for her to vasodilate (Echo 103). Vampires also act as saints where their self-sacrifices help the protagonists overcome their disabilities. Jukka is Jesus where he "died for our sins", unlocking the door of Chinese Room and freeing Siri to experience empathy (362). Meanwhile Valerie acts as Moses freeing vampires from their disabilities of the crucifix glitch and territorial homicide. Before doing so she saves Daniel's life from dying of the crucifix glitch through uttering a biblical trigger phrase "The tomb at Aramathea" (Echo 327) and starting his journey of rebirth as she leads him into the desert, curing Daniel of his consciousness and nurturing the unconscious Portia within Brüks before being murdered by a Daniel free of his disability. Valarie's last words, "Wouldn't it be nice if we could all just get along" shows us her vision of a promise land were vampires and humans are free of disabilities, living in unconscious bliss (Echo 351).