What is the definition of disability? From the title of Peter Watt's novel, Blindsight, it might be a phenomenon where the unconscious brainstem can see when the conscious mind cannot (Watts, Blindsight 170 or 170). Another disability is Echopraxia, also the title of the sequel, an unconscious mimicking of behavior (Watts, Echopraxia 315 or Echo 315). The implication is that disability is the involuntary manifestation of something that doesn't follow our standards of normal human behavior or appearance. This human benchmark is tested following the first contact with an alien civilization through Firefall, a cryptic appearance of thousands of probes, piquing our curiosity about why something is outside the norm (40). When the crew of the Theseus representing humanity meets Rorsarch, the extraterrestrial organic space vessel with a communication interface, its communications show a pattern of non-sentience, or lack of self-awareness, leading them to characterize it as dyslexic (105), sociopathic (107), and finally a Chinese Room, due to its communication simply following a set of rules but lacking comprehension of what is being said (117). Due to no longer meeting human criteria of sentience, the crew of the Theseus ignores its warnings (124) and drills into Rorsarch (138) without its permission in an attempt to find something that they share consciousness with.

Although non-sentience can be thought of as a disability, it appears evolutionarily advantageous, starting with the emotional disconnection in sociopathy in the upper echelons of human society (311) to phenomena where smarter, more successful animals evolve to be less aware, as with chimpanzees (310). The implications of this are what if our definition of disability is wrong? Our humanity and, more broadly, consciousness may be nothing but a parasite (351), an evolutionary fluke or disability if results are all that matter. The thought of not having to think but instantly knowing the right answers to every question in the universe makes us wonder if we should be more like scramblers, Rorsarch's octopoid inhabitants who traded away their sentience for far superior processing ability (263). Jukka Sarasiti, a vampire, a cannibalistic offshoot of humanity with superior intellect, explains that humans are like flightless birds, consciousness evolving because it was adequate enough without any evolutionary competition of a superior species lacking this disability (306). It is implied that had it not been for the crucifix glitch, a fatal visual disability towards right angles, the less sentient vampires would have inherited the earth, hinting at a war with humans to reclaim their birthright (362). In Blindsight, we see this skirmish between consciousness and unconsciousness in a final confrontation between Theseus and Rorsarch.

Imagine you are aboard the spaceship Theseus, one of the crew members on the bleeding edge of humanity, augmented to give you the impression that you may have an edge in dealing with Rorschach. Two prisoner scramblers, Stretch and Clench, do not even acknowledge each other's existence or their own (261), giving Susan James, Theseus' specialist in communication, the misinterpretation of an alien race of disabled cells-with-Waldoes (226). This lack of understanding is also felt by the aliens, who view your communication as a misinterpretation, the deliberate wasting of their resources, an act of war (324). Rorschach then attacks by exploiting these disabilities. It continues its pattern of killing essential medical personnel with Issac Szpindel (195), finishing off Robert Cunningham and further disabling you by cutting off Theseus' escape (330). Susan James' multi-core augmentation is supplanted by a new panicking personality (341), followed by exploiting Jukka Sarasti's crucifix glitch disability and possibly manipulating Susan to spike his anti-Euclidian drugs that treat the seizures (345). When all hope appears to be lost, it is Amanda Bates's act of noble self-sacrifice that allows the Theseus crew to defeat Rorschach by mutually assured destruction, the actions of a disabled mind the unconscious beings cannot comprehend due to following a set of rules to maximize their survival (350). You are Siri Keeton, the survivor of the skirmish between consciousness and unconsciousness, having spent your life fighting this battle yourself, only having left your Chinese Room by regaining your empathy (362).