Is your disability also your identity? This question relates to the ship of Theseus, a thought experiment and symbolic for the novel’s spaceship which shares the same name, where if the parts of something are replaced or removed, is it now a different object or person? Siri Keeton asks us to imagine radical hemispherectomy, an operation where "half the brain is thrown out with yesterday's krill" (20). Initially, the answer appears to be yes, that you cannot hope to regain what is lost and can only dream (234). To cope with his disability, Siri acquires another, a Chinese Room similar to the unconsciousness of vampires or Scramblers, which provides him with the new identity of being the top synthesist in his field, requiring the skill set of decoding incomprehensible patterns (254). This disability is shown tragically as a metaphorical room, one Siri hides in to avoid intense emotions, a bathroom to hide from his mother Helen (230), or as a set of rules when his ex-girlfriend Chelsea is dying, "I really wanted to talk to her. I just couldn't find an algorithm that fit" (293). Later, it might be said that the answer is no, and a person can be more than the sum of their parts. We see this through the equivalent of biblical crucifixion by Jukka Sarasti, allowing Siri to be reborn through transcending his emotional disability and finally empathizing, "Get out of your room, Keeton [...] For once in your goddamned life, understand something" (300). However, for Siri Keeton, the timing of regaining his humanity is unfortunate, with the possibility of leaving him disabled and alone if humanity loses its consciousness after the events of Echopraxia.

Daniel Brüks is a baseline, or normal, non-augmented human who struggles to stay by post-human, vampire standards, a roach or "so primitive you're unkillable" (Echo 141). Unlike Siri, who dreams of being non-disabled, Daniel takes prejudices and humiliations in stride with pride in his disability of baseline-ness, never opting for body augmentations and instead wearing a gimp hood to access ConSensus and pills. The implication being that this is a self-imposed disability when brain implants (Echo 169) and pumps (Echo 52) exist. As noted by his wife Rhona, Daniel's overcompensation for his disabilities (Echo 321) is what makes him endearing, and he is portrayed as not being a wannabe post-human (Echo 68). Whereas Siri's disability is expressed as imposter syndrome when he is actually part of the bleeding edge of the Theseus crew (252), Daniel, like a Luddite, clings to his humanity and empiricism, disabilities in a universe where consciousness is implied to be a parasite (Echo 351) and "God's a virus" (Echo 224). If Siri's disability is following a system of rules and reporting to his masters without comprehension (250), Daniel's disability is rebelling against rules if he cannot consciously comprehend them, "Even in sleep, Dan Brüks didn’t take anything on faith" (Echo 69). Daniel is "cured" from this disability by being used by the Bicamerals and vampires to uplift humanity and achieve interspecies peace by infecting him with Portia, a cure or patch for consciousness created by Rorschach, which it sent back towards Earth through the Icarus stream during the events of Blindsight. Realizing that he lives in a prejudiced society that has forcibly cured him, Daniel embraces his disability, being expressed as the free will to take his own life (Echo 352).

Unlike Daniel, we see the majority of humanity succumbing to anxieties of being obsolete for perceived disabilities and being forced to augment. Some humans escape into heaven, a virtual reality simulation, while others are forced to become augmented. It is ironic when Daniel’s wife Rhona hides from the guilt of a cloud-killer (Echo 91), someone who kills sentient AI, by becoming one herself. When she laments, appearing like a shriveled pickled fetus that, "Heaven isn’t the future. It’s a refuge for gutless wonders who want to hide from the future […] wish fulfillment for passenger pigeons" (Echo 322), she is implying that these "ascended," augmented humans like herself are the truly disabled, running away from reality, not baselines like Daniel. When we re-examine Siri’s mother Helen and find out that his father Jim Moore's fault for Siri’s disability (Echo 195), we no longer see the ableist mother who can’t accept her son, which Siri portrays her as, but someone who is disabled herself and clings to the hope that her son is still alive (The Colonel). Meanwhile, on Theseus and Earth, we see post-augmented humans acquiring physical and mental disabilities to escape perceived societal disability. As expressed by Robert Cunningham, "We can be utterly useless, or we can try and compete against the vampires and the constructs and the AIs" (251). Szpindel and Cunningham themselves are implied to lose aspects of their sensation of touch (91) or the ability to conceptualize identity through the use of gender pronouns (247), the tradeoff allowing interfacing with machines like they were parts of their own body (278). However, we see that these augments have turned these humans into specialists, a Kafkaesque lifestyle where a person is defined by what their biological or societal function is. When it is revealed that the majority of life is non-sentient and communication is only necessary for kin selection or biological value, Susan James, whose entire purpose and augmentation is for that function, experiences a nervous breakdown and is unable to function (324). We see the same situation play out when these augmentations are removed through Cunningham, "Here was a system with its eyes and ears and tongue cut out, forced to stumble and feel its way around things it had once inhabited" (278), and temporarily to Siri, "[…] you took strip me down to some raw half-brained defenseless animal" (305). Other augmented humans include Lianna Lutterodt, self-proclaimed "koala bear compared to a rat" due to being a synthesist but whose sole purpose is to transcribe thoughts of Bicammerals, hive-minded super monks with biological radios allowing telepathy (Echo 29), and Rakshi Sengupta with a hyperactive brain and processing ability manifesting itself in a speech pattern consisting of run-on sentences. We see augmentation causing even more pronounced disabilities in these two characters where Rakshi is unable to even look at Daniel in the eyes or recognize him as causing the disabled state of her girlfriend, even asking Daniel for assistance when she knows the name of the person responsible is Daniel Brüks (Echo 298). Lianna’s augmented disability is a diminished sense of mortality, shrugging off having her spine snapped (Echo 188), and a blind faith as an ambassador of a group whose lack of individual identity leads to her death (Echo 263). This group of Bicamerals gain abilities due to the self-infliction of disabilities in the form of induced brain cancer with synaptic pruning but sacrifice aspects of their humanity. The operation causes themselves to be reborn with a new brain (Echo 179), one which almost loses the ability to verbally communicate with the rest of humanity (147). As stated by Jim Moore, baselines are less disabled, more reliable because they have been field-tested for millions of years, removing evolutionary glitches (Echo 141).