What is the definition of disability? From the tile of Peter Watt's novel, Blindsight, is a phenomenon where the unconscious brainstem can see when the conscious cannot (Watts, Blindsight 170 or 170). Another disability is Echopraxia, title of the sequel, manifesting in a an unconscious mimicking of behavior (Watts, Echopraxia 315 or Echo 315). The implication is that disability is the involuntary manifestation of something that doesn't follow our standards of normal human behavior or appearance. This human benchmark is tested following first contact with an alien civilization through Firefall, a cryptic appearance of thousands of probes, piquing our curiosity of why something is outside the norm (40). When we meet Rorsarch, the extraterrestrial organic space vessel with a communication interface, talking to it shows a pattern of non-sentience, or lack of self-awareness, which lead us to characterize it as dyslexic (105), sociopathic (107), and finally a Chinese Room, due to communicating with a set of rules but having no comprehension of what is being said (117). Due to no longer meeting human criteria of sentience, the crew of the Thesus ignores its warnings (124) and drills into Rorsarch (138) without its permission in an attempt to find something that we share consciousness with.

Although non-sentience can be thought as a disability, it appears evolutionary advantageous, starting with the emotional disconnection in sociopathy in upper echelons of human society (311) to phenomenon where smarter more successful animals evolve to be less aware as with chimpanzees (310). The implications of this are what if our definition of disability is wrong? Our humanity and more broadly consciousness may be nothing but a parasite (351), the evolutionary fluke or disability if the results are all that matter. The thought of not having to think but instantly knowing the right answers to every question in the universe makes us wonder if we should be more like scramblers, Rorsarch's octopoid inhabitants who traded away their sentience for far superior processing ability (263). Jukka Sarasiti a vampire, cannibalistic offshoots of humanity with superior intellect, explains that humans are like flightless birds, consciousness evolving because it was adequate enough with non evolutionary competition forcing a further evolution into non-sentience (306). It is implied that had it not been for the crucifix glitch, a fatal visual disability towards right angles, that the less sentient vampires would have inherited the earth, hinting a war with humans to reclaim their birthright (362). In Blindsight, we see this skirmish between consciousness and unconsciousness in a final confrontation between Theseus and Rorsarch.

Imagine you are aboard the space ship Theseus one of the crew on the bleeding edge of humanity augmented to give you the impression that you may have the edge in dealing with Rorschach. Two prisoner scramblers Stretch and Clench, don't even acknowledge each other existence or their own (261) giving the Susan James, Theseus' specialist in communication, the misinterpretation of a alien race of disabled cells-with-Waldoes (226). This lack of understanding is also felt by the aliens as viewing your your communication as a misinterpretation the deliberate wasting of their resources of an evolutionary disabled civilization and therefore an act of war (324). Rorsarch then attacks by exploiting these disabilities. It continues its pattern of killing essential medical personnel with Issac Szpindel (195), finishing off Robert Cunningham and further disabling you by cutting off Theseus' escape (330). Susan James multi-core augmentation is supplanted by a new panicking personality (341) followed by exploiting Jukka Sarasti crucifix glitch disability and possibly Susan spiking his anti-Euclidian drugs that treat the seizures (345). When all hope appears to be lost, it is Amanda Bates's act noble self-sacrifice that allows the Theseus crew to defeat Rorsarch by mutually assured destruction, actions of a disabled mind the unconscious beings cannot comprehend due to following a set of rules to maximize their survival (350). You are Siri Keeton, the survivor of the skirmish between consciousness and unconsciousness, having spent your life fighting this battle yourself, only having left your Chinese Room by regaining your empathy (362).